# 1.1: Prerequisites

##  ALAIO Versions

the subsequent tutorials are upto date with the following ALAIO conpoments.

| Component | Version |
| ---| --- |
| alaio | 2.0.0 |
| alaio.cdt | 1.7.0 |
| alaio.contracts | 1.9.0 |

## Development experience

ALAIO based blockchains implement user-generated applications and code using WebAssembly (WASM). WASM is an emerging web standard with widespread support from Google, Microsoft, Apple, and industry leading companies.

At the moment the most mature toolchain for building applications that compile to WASM is clang/llvm with their C/C++ compiler. For best compatibility, it is recommended that you use the ALAIO C++ toolchain.

Rust, Python, and Solidity are other toolchains in development by third parties. The languages appear simpler but, their performance will likely impact the scale of application you can build. We expect that C++ will be the best language for developing high-performance and secure smart contracts and plan to use C++ for the foreseeable future.

## Operating System

the ALAIO software supports the following environments fir development and/or deployment.

* Amazon Linux 2
* Centos 7
* Ubuntu 16.04
* Ubuntu 18.04
* MacOS 10.14 (Mojave) and higher

> **Note** <br> if you are developing on Windows, unfortunately we do not provide PowerShell ports and instructions at this time. In the future we may append PowerShell commands. In the mean-time your best bet is to use a VM with Ubuntu, and set up your development environment inside this VM. If you're an advanced Window's developer familiar with porting Linux instructions, you should encounter minimal issues.

### Command line Knowledge

There are a variety of tools provided along with ALAIO which requires you to have basic command line knowledge in order to interact with.

## Development Tools

We have the option to use any text editor that preferable, supports C++ syntax highlighting. Sublime Text, IDE and Atom are some of the popular editors. IDE provides a more sophisticated code completion and more complete development experience. You can use the software of your personal preference, but if you are unsure what to use we've provided some options for you to explore.

### Potential Editors and IDEs

* [Sublime Text]()
* [Atom Editor]()
* [CLion]()
* [Eclipse]()
* [Visual Studio Code]()

> The resources listed above are developed, offered, and maintained by third-parties and not by Alacrity. Providing information, material, or commentaries about such third-party resources does not mean we endorse or recommend any of these resources. We are not responsible, and disclaim any responsibility or liability, for your use of or reliance on any of these resources. Third-party resources may be updated, changed or terminated at any time, so the information below may be out of date or inaccurate. USAGE AND RELIANCE IS ENTIRELY AT YOUR OWN RISK

What you'll learn

*Only a sample of what you'll learn*

* How to quickly spin up a node
* Manage wallets and keys
* Create Accounts
* Write some contracts
* Compilation and ABI
* Deploy contracts

## What's Next?

* [1.2 Before You Begin](https://developer.alacritys.net/docs/how_alaio_works/getting_started_with_alaio/1._development_environment/1.2_before_you_begin.md): Steps to download and install binaries on your system.
