# 1.4 Create Development Wallet

Wallets are accessed using alacli and are repositories of public-private key pairs. Private keys are needed to sign operations performed on the blockchain.

## Step 1: Create a Wallet

To start you need to create a wallet. Use [alacli wallet create]() to create a new "default" wallet using the option `--to-console` for simplicity. If using alacli in production, it's wise to instead use `--file` so your wallet password is not in your bash history. For purpose of development and because these are **development and not production keys** `--to-console` poses no security threat.

    alacli wallet create --to-console

`alacli` will return a password, save this password somewhere as you will likely need it later in the tutorial.

    Creating wallet: default
    Save password to use in the future to unlock this wallet.
    Without password imported keys will not be retrievable.
    "PW5Kewn9L76X8Fpd....................t42S9XCw2"

> **About Wallets** <br> <br> Common misinformation in cryptocurrency regarding wallets is that they store tokens. In reality though, a wallet is used to store private keys in an encrypted file to sign transactions. Wallets don't serve as a storage medium for tokens.

Users build a transaction object and sends that object to the wallet to be signed, usually through an interface the wallet. It then returns that transaction object with a signature which is then broadcast to the network. When/if the network confirms that the transaction is valid, it is included into a block on the blockchain.

## Step 2: Open the Wallet

When starting a kalad instance, wallets are closed by default. To begin, run the following

    alacli wallet open

Run the following to return a list of wallets.

    alacli wallet list

and it will return

    Wallets:
    [
      "default"
    ]

## Step 3: Unlock it

While the `kalad` wallet(s) have been opened, it is still locked. You were just provided with a password, you are now going to need that.

    alacli wallet unlock

You will be prompted for your password, paste it and press enter.

Now run the following command

    alacli wallet list

It should now return

    Wallets:
    [
      "default *"
    ]

The asterisk(*) means your wallet it currently **unlocked**. Pay special attention to it.

## Step 4: Import keys into your wallet

Generate a private key, `alacli` has a helper function for this, just run the following.

    alacli wallet create_key

It will return something like..

    Created new private key with a public key of: "ALA8PEJ5FM42xLpHK...X6PymQu97KrGDJQY5Y"

## Step 5: Import the Development Key

"Alaio" is a default "system" user that is for every new ALAIO chain. This account is used to setup the chain by loading system contracts that dictate the governance and consensus of the ALAIO chain. Every new ALAIO chain comes with a development key, and this key is the same. Load this key to sign transactions on behalf of the system user (alaio)

"Alaio" is a default "system" user that is for every new ALAIO chain

    alacli wallet import

Enter the `alaio` development key provided below when prompted for a private key.

    5KQwrPbwdL6PhXujxW37FSSQZ1JiwsST4cqQzDeyXtP79zkvFD3

> **Important** <br> <br> Never use the development key for a production account! Doing so will most certainly result in the loss of access to your account, this private key is publicly known.

Great! now you have a standard default wallet unlocked and loaded with a key, and you are now ready to proceed.

## What's Next?

* [1.5: Start kalad and alanode](https://developer.alacritys.net/docs/how_alaio_works/getting_started_with_alaio/1._development_environment/1.5_start_kalad_and_alanode.md)
